# Reading 3: Predictive Policing


## Materials:

*[The Minority Report](https://cwanderson.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/11/Philip-K-Dick-The-Minority-Report.pdf)* by Philip K. Dick

*[What Stastics Can and Can't Tell Us About Ourselves](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2019/09/09/what-statistics-can-and-cant-tell-us-about-ourselves)* by Hannah Fry

List of 3 contemporary systems/applications in which data is used to predict the future in order to then act upon it
1. Instagram Statistics:
Social media applications such as Instagram have a section called insights that allows you to learn more about your audience. It tells you when your followers are online and most likely to see your post, thus influencing the time you post. It also gives you information on what content is liked or disliked amongst your followers.
2. Google Analytics: This platform allows you to monitor activity on your site, see how much traffic you are getting. You can see which pages and screens users engage with the most as well as how much revenue is generated through e-commerce, purchases, and advertisements. 
3. Shopping History: Many shopping platforms such as Amazon and Taobao use algorithms to keep track of what you order as well as what items you search and choose to view more information on. 

Prediction plays a role in all three systems mentioned above. Take the insights section for instagram, people are influenced by engagement data, allowing it to take control of what type of content you post and where. In the short run, it may not seem harmful to schedule your posts around the time your followers are around but when you don't get the results, such as likes and comments, that you were expecting - it can take a toll on your self esteem. I've heard of many cases where creators will make posts or videos and see that they didn't do as well as predicted. In this digital age, numbers play a huge role in many people's daily lives and we must step back and see the effects it may have on mental health. So, in this case who is the real influencer? Companies use google analytics as a tool to better understand the customer. On the Google Analytics website it states, "Analytics can analyze your data and predict future actions people may take, like making a purchase or churning. You can then create audiences that are predicted to take these actions to drive conversions or retain more of your users." Thus, the end goal of many companies using this tool is to be able to retain customers in order to make more money. All of your actions are tracked to predict how much value you bring to the company as a customer. This idea of attaching a value to a person is found everywhere. One prime example is the  casino industry. People who are known to lose more money are treated as VIPs, given free suite rooms, show tickets, and dinners. When it comes to shopping, prediction plays a role as well. With data on your viewing and purchase history, companies are able to customize your profile and show you products that you are most likely to buy. This is clear when there are items on your feed that are similar to ones you previously searched or bought. These advertisements may even be found on other applications that you allowed companies to access.